Tell us something about your early life,
including the names of your parents, the dates of
their birth and death, and the place of their birth
and death, if you know them. If you don't know them,
that's OK, too. And where they were born, where you
were born, and the schools you went to before you
went to A&M. Well, now, do I start off by saying my
name is Thaddeus Ansley? That's fine, yes. At
Texas A&M, I'm known as Thad. A Ansley,
in some way a mix up in my transcribing my high
school grades to Texas A&M. Thaddeus, no middle
initial Ansley, became Thad A, initial only
Ansley. My father, Benjamin Thomas Ansley, Jr.,
was born in 1870 in Johnson County, Texas. My
mother, Goldie Fanny Nally Ansley, was born in
West Station. That's in Ellis County, Texas. I was
in 1879. I was the fifth child and the fifth
consecutive son of B.T. and Goldie Ansley was born
in Channing, Texas, the home of the XIT Ranch, in
1906. Channing, Texas is in Hartley County.
From in 1908, my father, my father at the time was,
had been superintendent of schools at Channing,
Texas and then he became the land agent for the XIT
Ranch and sold it, made a lot of money, made
$50,000. He had $50,000 in cash and went to
Plainview, Texas and established the third
national bank. built the building and is still
standing on the square there and built a nine-room
house on a quarter of a block of land. I believe it's
been moved recently. In 1908, we moved to
Plainview, Texas. And my father ran the Ansel Land
Cattle Company there and two other children. The
sixth child was a girl and the seventh child was a
boy, Benjamin Thomas Ansley III, who is also a
Texas Aggie, the class of 45,
were born in Plainview. And we moved to Amarillo in
Potter County, Texas in 1917. And that has been my
home since then. Since 17. And did you go to school?
I went to Amarillo High School. I pride myself in
the fact that I was a member of the first Amarillo
Golden Sandstorm baseball team.
I lettered in baseball and basketball at my
mother's
high school. Are either of your parents still
living? No, my father and mother are both dead. My
father lived to be 86 and my mother to be about 80.
factors were involved in your choice of Texas A&M
as a school? My uh one of my neighbor boys brother
worked for the county here for the the Potter
County engineer. The Potter County engineer was
Colonel O.A. Seward who is from Washington County
and a class of ought nine I believe or one of the
early classes of Texas A&M and We liked him and we
fell in love with his description of Texas A&M. We
decided to be civil engineers. Incidentally, I am
now in the dry cleaning business. My college
roommate who lives here now is an
independent rancher investments, but he has
never practiced a day of civil, neither of us have
ever practiced a day of civil engineering.
So it was a personal acquaintance type thing.
That's right. I think so. You had never been to the
campus before. No, I had never been to campus. Of
course, that was a day and a half or a two-day train
ride from Amarillo to College Station at that
time. That's a pretty good day's car drive today,
even with good highway. That's right. What were
your first reactions to the campus when you
arrived there as an incoming freshman?
college roommate, who was also my neighbor here in
Amarillo, had gone on ahead to meet some friends in
Houston. And he met me at the station at the old H&TC
station. Well, that's good enough, H&TC station
and college station. And one of the biggest
disappointments in my life was that I knew that
there would be 200 people, 200 sophomores to meet
me at the station at A&M with the board. Of course
they weren't, and this old old person I knew in the
world there was my 2B college roommate, and he met
me at the station. We took that long walk from the
station up to the main building, and two country
boys you've never seen, we went to looking around,
and we asked them if they knew where we could find
Dobbin. Now Dobbin happened to be a man named an
umbrella man that we knew down there that was in
Calgary. He was a senior. And they says, who do you
mean? I said, well, don't you know Dobbin Dodson?
They says, you mean Major Dodson. So anyway, we
found out that who we called Dobbin or Ham was known
as Dusty Dodson at Texas A&M. And he was a major, and
he finally, this placement. put us in the room in
Milner Hall. So I spent my first night at Texas A&M
in Milner Hall, and once again, I must say that I was
disappointed. There wasn't any haze, and they
left us alone. We heard lots of noise and lots of
things going on, but they didn't bother us. Did you
have to go through any special procedures to get
into the school? I mean, did you have to apply in
advance or did you just appear on the scene? No, our
grades were sent ahead of us in transcript. I don't
know whether it was called transcript then or not.
But did the school ask Amarillo High School for
them, or did you ask Amarillo High School to send
the grades? We asked Amarillo High School to send
them. Uh-huh. So they had reason to believe, at
least at A&M, that you were coming. That's right.
And your grades were acceptable to them, so they
let you in. So then did you register? You got there
one day. Did you register the next day? I do not
know. I can't answer that question. What I mean
is... I would say within the next day or two. And
then you started classes right after that.
Started classes the next month. Could you
describe a typical day while you were there? What I
mean is, tell us something about the procedure of
getting up, the time you got up, the time you spent
in classes, what you did otherwise other than
going to class, what time you went to bed, and what
procedure there was involved in going to bed. They
had puttees or leggings, I believe, wrapped
leggings when I was at Texas A&M. And so we set our
alarm clock for 30 minutes ahead of the time. I've
even forgotten what time it was, but I'm sure it was
about 5.30 in the morning. We had to get up 30
minutes before everyone else to wrap our leggings
because we didn't know how. This was the fish.
Yeah, the freshmen, yes, were fish. And... We met
revelry at some unearthly hour to a high school boy
that had always been pampered at home and lived
within a block of the schoolhouse, so I never was a
very early riser. Likewise, my college roommate
who lived next door, we both lived within 100 yards
of the schoolhouse.
After Reveille and Drill, which I kind of
associate that with part of A&M, you learn to right
there you learn to become a part of a squad and you
learn that that's the best squad in the in the world
and then it's your platoons the best platoon in the
world and then it's your uh company's the best it
goes on kind of like that i think that's one of the
reasons for loyalty to any and they teach you they
start at the beginning to try to endeavor to do
something or make the best of things that they are
Of course, after coming back to the room, then we
got further dressed, I presume, and marched to our
meals, breakfast. After breakfast in the mess
hall, we could idle or walk back to the dormitory.
It seemed like as a freshman, all classes began at 8
o'clock. I don't know whether that's not true, but
it seemed that way.
I couldn't tell you now how many hours. It seemed
like 17 hours, but that's... 17 class hours a week.
17 class hours a week, but that's immaterial.
As an engineering student, we took... All
engineering students took basic... one basic
subject or basic subject. I had to be in section 26.
I believe my roommate was in class section 25. I
don't know whether it was according to
intelligence test of which the intelligence test
at Texas A&M was my first intelligence test and it
was a big shock to me because I had never had a test of
that kind that I know of. So I imagine we were placed
in sections according to our rate on our
intelligence test. Did you have to reform in
companies for noon meal? Oh yes, we then we at noon
we come back to the dormitories and made formation
and marched to the mess hall and once again we could
amble back to our rooms and do most anything we
wanted to. As a freshman, there was very little
idle time. There was always something doing and
studying. I thought I was an athlete, and I had
gotten through high school probably for that
reason. At Texas A&M, I studied five hours every
day.
The only way that I could get by, I think I finally
learned how to study. That happens to a lot of
people. As a matter of fact, I think probably to
most people when they get out of high school into
college, they have to learn how to study, first of
all. And it was very difficult for me. And I was
taking civil engineering, which I know now that I
was not qualified to. parts of it. I was like
mathematics, and I thought the civil engineer
would be for me, but I found out since it wasn't.
Then what about during the afternoon? Did you have
labs? We had labs, of course.
I know all freshman students had to take fish
chemistry, of which four years later most of them
were still taking fish chemistry. and had
laboratory, three hours of laboratory a week and
two hours of class work is the way I remember it. We
had a little bit of mechanical engineering and
they told us, we called it iron pounding. They told
us some fundamentals about brazing metals or
welding metals together and we called it iron
pounding. of which I'm still not qualified to do.
After my freshman year, I bought my father a chisel
that I made now iron pounding. And he said, well,
when I brought it back to him, he said, well, that's
a $600 chisel. That's what he'd call it. He'd send
me to school, Texas A&M, $600. $630, I believe, was
my expenses from the day I left Amarillo until the
day I came back to Amarillo in June. That even
included the Christmas holidays. I spent $630,
and I never worked a minute in my freshman year. Did
you come home for Christmas? I came home for
Christmas. Of course, as I say, it was at least a day
and a half and probably two days train ride from
College Station. We would ride the train, H&TC up
to Fort Worth, and then get to Fort Worth and Denver
from Fort Worth to Amarillo.
One of our great experiences was football trips,
getting to make the football trips to Austin and to
Waco
for the Baylor games, which is quite an experience
for a country boy.
At that time, 2,300 cadets all on the trains, which
would take four special trains to haul us. Did each
cadet have to pay for a ticket on the train? Oh, yes,
yes. Of course, not all of us paid. I guess you heard
some pretty good stories about how we hit them on
the, what is it, the blinds and one way or another.
Anyway... You get that many boys together,
there's a lot of conniving. Yeah, and then you paid
admission to the game too. That's right, that's
right. But at that point, you went by train to
Austin and to? Train to Baylor, Waco. Waco, did you
go to either Dallas or Fort Worth that year, the
year you were there? I don't believe we did that my
freshman year. I have been on those later. One of
the things to us was, it takes A&M. the kush or pie or
dessert, it seemed to us that everybody had all the
raisin pie they wanted. And we had a boy from
Maryland, who shall remain nameless, they gave us
a meal ticket at Waco, the merchants did, to buy,
and we could buy anything we wanted to to eat. And
one of the Texas A&M boys bought a Raisin pie, and I
guess till his dying day, he lived to regret that.
We never let him forget.
Okay, back to the typical day then. Did you reform
your companies to go to supper? We reformed,
made a formation to march to supper. We marched
supper and came back, and then we were supposed to
be in our room. Once again, we could amble back to
the room, but there was usually some sophomore
that wanted us to come back and see him for some
reason or another. And we had to be in our room, I'm
going to say, by 7 or 8 o'clock. And we were supposed
to be in our room then until 1045. And then from 1045
to 11, we could do anything in the world we wanted to
or go anywhere we wanted to just so we didn't leave
the campus for 15 minutes. And then what? Like
that? And then 11 nights out at 11. That was a
typical day. Of course, there's lots of
variations because some nights they were aired
out or threats of being aired out. I don't know that
we had too many. We were... I happened to be in
Foster Hall in Fish Heaven. There were, it's the
fourth floor of Foster Hall and there was no one
lived up there but freshmen and they called it Fish
Heaven so they didn't want to climb those steps and
get after us too much but there was always that
threat of we were going to get aired out. It seemed
like it every night, of course it wasn't. And we got
somewhere out of place and we were drowned out too,
a time or two. What about, did they have a midnight
yell practice or anything of that nature? Yes, the
midnight
yell practice was really a scary experience. The
first time I experienced it, Dutch Horn came to
town and That was my first knowledge of that great
old man. And he told us all about how A&M was going to
dogs because it was going to let girls in it. This
was in 1924. And he told us some of the pitfalls of
girls at Texas A&M University. And we had a lot of
fun. I said it would be all right. We'd go back to her
room whenever we wanted to. And I don't know
whether it took an hour and a half out of her life or
what. But anyway, it was really some experience to
go to those midnight Yale practices.
I can't remember whether I have been pretty well
associated with Texas A&M. And I have been to
their. were a fallen comrade. What is that called?
Silver taps? Silver taps. I've been to those and I
can't remember whether as a freshman I had those or
not. But it's a very impressive ceremony and I have
been to them through the years and I know and I
can't, my memory failed me whether I had one as a
freshman or not. But I know I've always been
impressed with silver taps. You mentioned a
minute ago that you lived the year you were there in
the fourth floor of Foster Hall in Fish Heaven.
What was life like? I mean, was it pretty wild and
woolly at times in the dormitory? Oh, yes, it was
wild and woolly. There was almost never a dull
moment. The other fish in the company knew that
they'd come up there and not be molested by the
sophomores, or that was the assumption. And we had
a lot of visitors up there that were freshmen. And
also, it had its misgivings in the fact that when a
sophomore wanted a freshman, he knew where to find
one.
One of my things I started with when I first went to
Texas A&M was I went in my room and locked my door.
And of course, that's a fallacy. There's no way you
can lock a door in Texas A&M that I knew of. Because
someone could get a bayonet and come right on in as
if Of course, that's one of the first things I
learned, too, is how to get in another room. I think
that is part of the Aggie tradition about the
openness. There's no way you can, as they say now, a
man can be an island unto himself because it takes
saying him. There wasn't any such thing as
privacy.
I don't mean that they meddled in everyone's
business, but your door was open. Well, I visited
A&M campus a number of times when I was an
undergraduate at Texas Lutheran, and I was always
impressed by two things. One, the friendliness of
the students. And two, the fact that a student
could put down almost anything anywhere and come
back any time later and they'd still be there.
That's right. And the last three years I observed
and kind of feel that unfortunately neither of
those are quite as true as they used to be. The
friendliness is there on occasion, but of course
certainly you're not greeted by everybody as you
were when it was an all-military school. And I
think there's a little bit of reluctance to put
something down, and he clicked to come back an hour
later and find it. It's an unforgivable sin not to
speak to anyone at Texas A&M, of course. One of the
first things you learn is to introduce yourself.
We learned was to introduce yourself to everyone
else. My first experience along that line, I
introduced myself to a man, and I told him Fish
Ansley was my name. Incidentally, my name was Fish
Ansley for the entire freshman year, which at
first it kind of stung, but I learned to be awful
proud of it.
This sophomore says, Fish Ansley, you've met me
before. And I says, no, I haven't, sir. He says,
well, you've been over it. And I'll show you what my
name is. His name happened to be Harry A. Holzer,
Jr. I shall never forget that name, and he would be
named Junior. And now it's 50 years ago that this
happened, and I still know Harry A. Holzer, Jr.,
because he spelled it out with each letter with a
board. It's been a very valuable lesson to me
through life. I have, when I'm introduced to
anyone, I pay attention to their name now, because
if you get, that happened to me one other occasion,
but the man's name wasn't that long, so it wouldn't
make that big an impression on me, but I have
learned to pay attention, which is very valuable.
It's nothing but courteous that I found that, and I
appreciate that fact.
I must say that we were isolated. Texas A&M
College, at the time I was there, was isolated,
meaning the only way we had through civilization,
which was Brian, was by trolley car. We called it
the Tunerville Trolley. And of course, freshmen
couldn't go but one day a week, and that was Sunday
unless we sneaked off or something.
We always, there was always something to do. Of
course sophomores thought that too, that he did,
but you,
of course you can always study a little bit. What
sorts of things did the sophomores have you do for
them? Oh, let's see. Of course we cleaned up
sophomores' rooms. We became their maids in a way
of, I don't know whether that's what they called
them or not. The term dog robber was still in use
when I was at school and we almost became their dog
robber. When they wanted to borrow candy from
Casey's, they just stuck their head out the door
and hollered freshman and you were supposed to go
down and they'd go. You go get them the bar of candy
or anything else that they might desire.
I thought it was terrible at the time, but I can't
remember anything that they ever made me do that
rankled me much. Of course, we went to the post
office for them. There's only one post office
there. Then it was in the back of one of the Air Force
dormitories. Did you ever have to do things like
carry their laundry over? Yeah, we carried their
clothes to the laundry.
We were kind of almost maids in a way. You had to
sweep out the room and make the bed? Did you have to
make the bed every day? Every day, every morning.
We made their beds, which has become a pretty
good... business for me in later years when my wife
kind of liked the fact that i could make a bed i i must
hesitate to say here those people that gave me the
most chores and and gave me the most hell
turned out to be my greatest friends they were the
people that would have done anything in the world
for me and and i still revere them to this day This is
a form of hazing. It's kind of like your parents.
It's a form of hazing that you need because I don't
believe, I must say right here, I don't know of
anybody in the world that was as smart as I was when I
went to Texas A&M. I knew everything in the world.
It wasn't old, I thought.
But I take it you learned pretty quickly. You
didn't know everything. I sure did. I wondered how
those people could tell that I was a freshman.
because I'd come from a bigger town than one of the
larger towns in the state down there, and those
were just old country boys, and how in the world
they could tell I was a freshman. They made me wear a
fish stripe, which would put a white stripe around
my left wrist, at the shirt, and on the shirt, and
they called that a fish stripe, and of course I
didn't need that because They could tell I was a
fish as if I had a neon sign six blocks off. They knew
I was a fish, as we all later learned. You can tell a
fish just as far as you can see. What was the food
like in the mess hall? Well, I gained 15 pounds the
first 15 days I was at Texas A&M. I'm sure that, as I
say, I did a little running around when I was at
home. And I got down to A&M, and we had regular food
and regular hours. And I went from 155 pounds to 170
pounds in 15 days. And I have never been able to
criticize the food at Texas A&M. Now, I know some
people that didn't do that way, but it wasn't that
way with me. And I still. have thoughts of apricot
pie. Most people used to call pineapple kush. They
thought that was the greatest thing in the world.
It's fresh, but it was apricot kush with me. I
really and truly, I've never found any apricot pie
that tastes that good again. Well, who was in the
mess hall then when you were there? Duncan.
Duncan. Did they have a number of students working
in there? Yes, they had a lot of students working.
Waiting tables? Waiting tables. Washing dishes?
And I don't know why I said they called those mess
hall hounds. What? No, meal hounds, what they
called the boys that ate too much. I've forgotten
what they called. Sabezas.
It's been so long ago that I can't remember whether
I'd ever seen... ever saw Mr. Spieser, but Duncan
was there at the time. I can't remember, but I think
Duncan succeeded Spieser. Yes, that's right. One
of my fondest memories is of Charlie Nitsch.
Charlie Nitsch was, I'm going to say, an Italian
alien or immigrant to this country. He ran the
tailor shop there, and he was kind of a point of
ridicule. Of course, I never dreamed that I would
end up in the dry cleaning business for my life's
work after Charlie and Itch. We used to kind of kid
quite a bit about Charlie and Itch down there. He
ran the tailor shop? He ran the tailor shop. Of
course, when your uniforms were issued to you, it
seemed that they never fit. So you had to go down to
Charlie and Itch and get them all. fitted so
everybody got to know Charlie niche one way or
another and you mentioned earlier that say the
fish could go to town what once once a week once a
Sunday or Saturday or Sunday what what privileges
in addition to that, say, did an upperclassman
have? Could a sophomore go to town more often than
that? I don't believe the sophomores were
supposed to go any often than that. Of course, the
juniors and seniors almost had to free run the
campus. I
believe the sophomores were just about as
supposed to stay on the campus about as much as
freshmen. And so, but the only means of
transportation out of there was either this
trolley or the train. That's right. It was the
Houston and Texas Central and, uh... The line,
that's the Jenny. Now let's see, what do they call
it? The INGN. Yeah, International Great Northern
was the other one that ran through there. Uh, I must
say right here that I see you've interviewed
Harold Dunn. Uh, his hamburger stand was, I don't
know if he spoke to you about it or not, but it was
truly an oasis on the campus. And I've stood in line
many a time for hamburgers from upperclassmen and
also from myself. That's another one of the chores
we used to do to get some of Harold Unn's
hamburgers. He talked a little bit about his
hamburger stand.